So a few years ago I heard an interesting rumor. Apparently the head of a large pet food company would go into the annual shareholders meeting with can of dog food. And he would eat the can of dog food. And this was his way of convincing them that if it was good enough for him it was good enough for their pets. This strategy is now known as dogfooding and its a common strategy in the business world. It doesnt mean everyone goes in and eats dog food but businesspeople will use their own products to demonstrate that they feel that theyre confident in them. Now this is a widespread practice but I think whats really interesting is when you find exceptions to this rule when you find cases of businesses or people in businesses who dont use their own products. Turns out theres one industry where this happens in a common way in a pretty regular way and that is the screenbased tech industry. So in 2010 Steve Jobs when he was releasing the iPad described the iPad as a device that was extraordinary. The best browsing experience youve ever had way better than a laptop way better than a smartphone. Its an incredible experience. A couple of months later he was approached by a journalist from the New York Times and they had a long phone call. At the end of the call the journalist threw in a question that seemed like a sort of softball. He said to him Your kids must love the iPad. Theres an obvious answer to this but what Jobs said really staggered the journalist. He was very surprised because he said They havent used it. We limit how much technology our kids use at home. This is a very common thing in the tech world. In fact theres a school quite near Silicon Valley called the Waldorf School of the Peninsula and they dont introduce screens until the eighth grade. Whats really interesting about the school is that 75 percent of the kids who go there have parents who are highlevel Silicon Valley tech execs. So when I heard about this I thought it was interesting and surprising and it pushed me to consider what screens were doing to me and to my family and the people I loved and to people at large. So for the last five years as a professor of business and psychology Ive been studying the effect of screens on our lives. And I want to start by just focusing on how much time they take from us and then we can talk about what that time looks like. What Im showing you here is the average 24hour workday at three different points in history: 2007 10 years ago 2015 and then data that I collected actually only last week. And a lot of things havent changed all that much. We sleep roughly sevenandahalf to eight hours a day some people say thats declined slightly but it hasnt changed much. We work eightandahalf to nine hours a day. We engage in survival activities these are things like eating and bathing and looking after kids about three hours a day. That leaves this white space. Thats our personal time. That space is incredibly important to us. Thats the space where we do things that make us individuals. Thats where hobbies happen where we have close relationships where we really think about our lives where we get creative where we zoom back and try to work out whether our lives have been meaningful. We get some of that from work as well but when people look back on their lives and wonder what their lives have been like at the end of their lives you look at the last things they say they are talking about those moments that happen in that white personal space. So its sacred its important to us. Now what Im going to do is show you how much of that space is taken up by screens across time. In 2007 this much. That was the year that Apple introduced the first iPhone. Eight years later this much. Now this much. Thats how much time we spend of that free time in front of our screens. This yellow area this thin sliver is where the magic happens. Thats where your humanity lives. And right now its in a very small box. So what do we do about this. Well the first question is: What does that red space look like. Now of course screens are miraculous in a lot of ways. I live in New York a lot of my family lives in Australia and I have a oneyearold son. The way Ive been able to introduce them to him is with screens. I couldnt have done that 15 or 20 years ago in quite the same way. So theres a lot of good that comes from them. One thing you can do is ask yourself: What goes on during that time. How enriching are the apps that were using. And some are enriching. If you stop people while theyre using them and say Tell us how you feel right now they say they feel pretty good about these apps those that focus on relaxation exercise weather reading education and health. They spend an average of nine minutes a day on each of these. These apps make them much less happy. About half the people when you interrupt them and say How do you feel. say they dont feel good about using them. Whats interesting about these dating social networking gaming entertainment news web browsing people spend 27 minutes a day on each of these. Were spending three times longer on the apps that dont make us happy. That doesnt seem very wise. One of the reasons we spend so much time on these apps that make us unhappy is they rob us of stopping cues. Stopping cues were everywhere in the 20th century. They were baked into everything we did. A stopping cue is basically a signal that its time to move on to do something new to do something different. And think about newspapers eventually you get to the end you fold the newspaper away you put it aside. The same with magazines books you get to the end of a chapter prompts you to consider whether you want to continue. You watched a show on TV eventually the show would end and then youd have a week until the next one came. There were stopping cues everywhere. But the way we consume media today is such that there are no stopping cues. The news feed just rolls on and everythings bottomless: Twitter Facebook Instagram email text messaging the news. And when you do check all sorts of other sources you can just keep going on and on and on. So we can get a cue about what to do from Western Europe where they seem to have a number of pretty good ideas in the workplace. Heres one example. This is a Dutch design firm. And what theyve done is rigged the desks to the ceiling. And at 6pm every day it doesnt matter who youre emailing or what youre doing the desks rise to the ceiling. Four days a week the space turns into a yoga studio one day a week into a dance club. Its really up to you which ones you stick around for. But this is a great stopping rule because it means at the end of the day everything stops theres no way to work. At Daimler the German car company theyve got another great strategy. When you go on vacation instead of saying This persons on vacation theyll get back to you eventually they say This persons on vacation so weve deleted your email. This person will never see the email you just sent. You can email back in a couple of weeks or you can email someone else. And so You can imagine what thats like. You go on vacation and youre actually on vacation. The people who work at this company feel that they actually get a break from work. But of course that doesnt tell us much about what we should do at home in our own lives so I want to make some suggestions. Its easy to say between 5 and 6pm Im going to not use my phone. The problem is 5 and 6pm looks different on different days. I think a far better strategy is to say I do certain things every day there are certain occasions that happen every day like eating dinner. Sometimes Ill be alone sometimes with other people sometimes in a restaurant sometimes at home but the rule that Ive adopted is: I will never use my phone at the table. Its far away as far away as possible. Because were really bad at resisting temptation. But when you have a stopping cue that every time dinner begins my phone goes far away you avoid temptation all together. At first it hurts. I had massive FOMO. I struggled. But what happens is you get used to it. You overcome the withdrawal the same way you would from a drug and what happens is life becomes more colorful richer more interesting you have better conversations. You really connect with the people who are there with you. I think its a fantastic strategy and we know it works because when people do this and Ive tracked a lot of people who have tried this it expands. They feel so good about it they start doing it for the first hour of the day in the morning. They start putting their phones on airplane mode on the weekend. That way your phone remains a camera but its no longer a phone. Its a really powerful idea and we know people feel much better about their lives when they do this. So whats the take home here. Screens are miraculous Ive already said that and I feel that its true. But the way we use them is a lot like driving down a really fast long road and youre in a car where the accelerator is mashed to the floor its kind of hard to reach the brake pedal. Youve got a choice. You can either glide by past say the beautiful ocean scenes and take snaps out the window thats the easy thing to do or you can go out of your way to move the car to the side of the road to push that brake pedal to get out take off your shoes and socks take a couple of steps onto the sand feel what the sand feels like under your feet walk to the ocean and let the ocean lap at your ankles. Your life will be richer and more meaningful because you breathe in that experience and because youve left your phone in the car. Thank you. 